Docs: Instructions on creating scheduler plugin (#4476)
aiidateam/aiida-core: docs/source/topics/schedulers.rst

        }
    }

.. _topics:schedulers:develop_plugin:

Developing a plugin
-------------------

> The scheduler class is not supposed to be used by the user.
> Instead, the AiiDA engine will employ it to create a submission script for submitting a job to a scheduler.
> 
> When creating a job scheduler a user has to create two classes: one for validation of the resources and one for the actual scheduler. When creating the latter the user implement the following functions:
> 
>     1) ``_get_joblist_command``: returns the command to report a full information on existing jobs.
>     2) ``_get_detailed_job_info_command``: returns the command to get the detailed information on  a job, even after the job has finished.
>     3) ``_get_submit_script_header``: return the submit script header.
>     4) ``_get_submit_command``: return the string to submit a given script.
>     5) ``_parse_joblist_output``: parse the queue output string, as returned by executing the command returned by `_get_joblist_command`.
>     6) ``_parse_submit_output``: parse the output of the submit command, as returned by executing the command returned by `_get_submit_command`.
>     7) ``_get_kill_command``: return the command to kill the job with specified jobid.
>     8) ``_parse_kill_output``: parse the output of the kill command.
>     9) ``parse_output``: parse the output of the scheduler.
> 
> 
> Download :download:`this template <scheduler_template.py>` as a starting point to implementing a new scheduler plugin.
> It contains the interface with all the methods that need to be implemented, including docstrings that will work with Sphinx documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A scheduler plugin allows AiiDA to communicate with a specific type of scheduler.
The plugin should subclass the :class:`~aiida.schedulers.scheduler.Scheduler` class and implement a number of methods, that will instruct how certain key commands are to be executed, such as submitting a new job or requesting the current active jobs.
To get you started, you can download :download:`this template <scheduler_template.py>` and implement the following methods:

    1) ``_get_joblist_command``: returns the command to report a full information on existing jobs.
    2) ``_get_detailed_job_info_command``: returns the command to get the detailed information on  a job, even after the job has finished.
    3) ``_get_submit_script_header``: return the submit script header.
    4) ``_get_submit_command``: return the string to submit a given script.
    5) ``_parse_joblist_output``: parse the queue output string, as returned by executing the command returned by `_get_joblist_command`.
    6) ``_parse_submit_output``: parse the output of the submit command, as returned by executing the command returned by `_get_submit_command`.
    7) ``_get_kill_command``: return the command to kill the job with specified jobid.
    8) ``_parse_kill_output``: parse the output of the kill command.
    9) ``parse_output``: parse the output of the scheduler.

All these methods *have* to be implemented, except for ``_get_detailed_job_info_command`` and ``parse_output``, which are optional.
In addition to these methods, the ``_job_resource_class`` class attribute needs to be set to a subclass :class:`~aiida.schedulers.datastructures.JobResource`.
For schedulers that work like SLURM, Torque and PBS, one can most likely simply reuse the :class:`~aiida.schedulers.datastructures.NodeNumberJobResource` class, that ships with ``aiida-core``.
Schedulers that work like LSF and SGE, may be able to reuse :class:`~aiida.schedulers.datastructures.ParEnvJobResource` instead.
If neither of these work, one can implement a custom subclass, a template for which, the class called ``TemplateJobResource``, is already included in the template file.

```

.. note::

    To inform AiiDA about your new scheduler plugin you must register an entry point in the ``aiida.schedulers`` entry point group.

>     Please visit the `AiiDA registry <https://aiidateam.github.io/aiida-registry/>`_ to see an example of how this can be done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Refer to :ref:`the section on how to register plugins <how-to:plugins-develop:entrypoints>` for instructions.
```
